what's in here
what's it do and can i make it
from scratch it's the stuff
inside your stuff ingredients
first things first
these are not shaving cream or
actually shaving foam shaving
cream is more like face cream
and that deserves its own
episode as does shave gel and
shave soap but today is all
about this guy and the truth is
many of you could probably shave
your face with just water you
would though have to soak your
beard here for a good two
minutes to crack trial on it
takes for her to get hydrated
and soft about thirty percent
softer than normal but all of
these make the shaving
experience nicer and easier
shaving products lubricate the
interface between skin and the
sharp blade and some people say
they help keep beard hairs wet
during the shape so why use one
of these over another
honestly it's just personal
preference the cream and the
gels tend to be a bit thicker so
if you have a thick beard that
might be for you
where's the phones and the soaps
tend to wash off a little bit
easier foam in particular is
convenient when it comes out of
the can re lathered up so you
just stick it on your web face
and you're off shaving now the
two best-selling shave balms in
the US have basically the same
ingredients they are this one
has BHT which is preservative
this one does not
they both have fragrances and
it's actually kind of amazing
how different the fragrances are
this one is somewhat like a like
a locker room with wood cleaner
and this one sort of hours ago
like a citrus citrus leather
type smell shockingly different
anyway aside from water the
essential ingredients can be
split up into five types
the first is a lubricating soap
in this case triethylamine
stearate now ta stearate which
you can think of as stearic
acids are chemical cousin is
responsible for making all that
ladder which reduces friction
between the razor blades and
your face
the second category are the foam
boosters or laura 23 and sodium
lauryl sulfate which helped make
all that leather extra creamy
the third category is the
fragrance and the fourth is the
preservative in this case BHT an
antioxidant that helps prevent
the can from crewing at the last
group of ingredients are the
propellants specifically I some
butane and propane which are
both flammable and explosive so
whatever you do do not just
kidding
at reasonable temperature and
pressure this will not combust
because there's not nearly
enough isobutane and propane to
make this whole thing Flamel
in fact I could take a lighter
to it and as you can see it does
not come bust but you should
still not try this at home
because this can is under
pressure now you might be
wondering why there are
propellants in shaving foam well
it's what makes the foam foam
now phones in general are formed
when pockets of gas get trapped
in a solid or a liquid inside
our can here we have the first
four ingredients i showed you
there are also the propellants
which are gases at room
temperature and pressure so you
expect that they sit above the
liquid since they're less dense
but the whole can is pressurized
at 224 times atmospheric
pressure which ends up
liquefying some of the
propellant meaning it actually
dissolves in the soapy mixture
below when you press this button
the propellant gas at the top
expands pushing the liquid down
which in turn pushes it up
through the straw out the nozzle
and into the world now here is
the absolutely insane part
remember that the soapy mixture
coming out of the nozzle that
has some liquid propellant
dissolved in it and when that
liquid propellant hits our
atmosphere it turns back into a
gas which gets trapped in the
surrounding liquid creating
bubbles billions of them now
those bubbles are way smaller
than anything you get if you
just lather up with soap or use
one of these air pump and foamy
things and it's the tiniest of
the bubbles that gives shaving
foam structure now that we know
what's in shaving foam and how
it works
I'm gonna try and make my own
from scratch using only natural
ingredients i'm gonna start with
the exact same ingredient you
find in commercial shave foam
and stearic acid which I'm going
to react with sodium hydroxide
and that will get us stearate
which hopefully will produce a
rich creamy lubricating lather
both of these by the way you can
get from nature and sodium
hydroxide can be a bit dangerous
which is why I'm wearing safety
gear also use this natural soap
as a phone booster because it
foams up real nice for fragrance
rosemary essential oil and
because i don't want to be
dealing with pure concentrated
flammable gases i'm going to use
nitrous oxide as my propellant
and i'm going to use this
whipping cream
canister to dispense my phone so
let's get started
yeah
this is getting slimy which is a
good sign for a lubricating soap
some tight now we charge it to
shake all right moment of truth
hey that's not bad
it did foam up i can see the
bubbles and it's not quite as
structured as the commercial
phones i would guess that my
stearate concentration is
probably too low for that but
let's now see how this actually
performs on the face I didn't
soak my beard hair so this is
probably going to hurt but for
science
yeah by the way this smells
amazing
this is really not bad at all
this shaving foam is performing
a smooth had a very well i i'm
i'm impressed i would give this
an 8 out of 10
now if you guys have ideas on
how to improve this recipe let
me know in the comments if you
have an idea for an episode hit
me up on Twitter and in the
meantime I'm gonna finish
shaving